RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) — Frank W. Stevens, who served six years in the North Carolina State Senate more than a half-century ago, announced Thursday he will seek the 10th Congressional District seat in 2026. Stevens, who turns 100 next month, would become the oldest person ever elected to Congress if successful.

Speaking from the steps of the North Carolina Legislative Building in Raleigh, Stevens said he decided to run after becoming "deeply concerned about the direction of this country and this state."

"I've seen a lot in my 100 years," Stevens told reporters. "I served in the Senate when North Carolina was building its community college system and when we were still fighting over integration. We've come too far to turn back now."

Stevens, a Democrat, served in the state Senate from 1963 to 1969 at age 30, representing Alamance County. He previously worked as a textile plant manager and served on the Burlington City Council. After leaving the legislature, he operated a real estate firm before retiring in 1988.

The 10th District seat is currently held by Republican Congressman Patrick T. Harrington, who has served since 2021. The district includes suburban areas of Charlotte and votes Republican by an average of 12 points.

State Democratic Party Chairwoman Maria Elena Santos acknowledged Stevens' age but praised his experience.

"Frank Stevens has forgotten more about North Carolina politics than most people will ever know," Santos said. "His institutional knowledge is unmatched."

Stevens will face former state Representative David L. Morrison in the Democratic primary scheduled for March 2026. Morrison, 62, declined to comment on Stevens' candidacy.

According to the Congressional Research Service, the oldest person ever elected to Congress was Republican William L. Dawson of Illinois, who was 84 when he won his final term in 1962. The oldest sitting member was Republican Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, who served until age 100 but was 97 when last elected.

Stevens said he has no plans to campaign extensively, citing mobility issues, but will participate in candidate forums and debates.

"I won't be knocking on doors," he said. "But I'll be talking to voters about what matters - jobs, education and making sure we don't lose what we've built."

Stevens filed paperwork with the State Board of Elections Thursday morning. The filing deadline for congressional candidates is December 2025.


